class: middle
## Mix in some pre-written Rust
#### src/lib.rs

```diff
+methods!(
+    RString,
+    _itself,
+
+    fn to_snake_case(test: RString) -> RString {
+        RString::new(&test.unwrap_or(RString::new("")).to_string().to_snake_case())
+    }
```

???

- Finally some real Rust code!
- Starting from the inside out we can see a function definition for
  `to_snake_case`
  - Functions and methods are denoted by `fn`
    - By default unless a function is marked `pub` it is considered private to
      the module that it's in. In this case that's exactly what we want.
    - If we're coming from a ruby perspective everything is fine right up until
      the colon. (If you've written Crystal this might still be OK).
      - Rust is a strongly typed language
      - This means that we need to define a contract on the input and output
        that the function will produce. Note: There is no Void, Null, Nil in
        Rust.
      - The input in this case is an `RString` and our output is an `RString`
        - This makes sense since we're going to be working with Ruby strings
      - Also note that variables are by default immutable. If you wish to use
        mutable variables you have to explicitly define them as `mut`. See Rust
        book
    - The next line is a bit hairy so let's break it down a little bit. I'm
      going to kind of gloss over some of the details here to make things a
      little easier but if you're interested make sure you check out the Rust book and
      the ruru documentation for more details
      - `RString::new()`
        - We're going to output a new Ruby string. Notice that there is no
          explicit return statement here. Rust assumes that the last line is
          returned just like in ruby. However you are welcome to add additional
          return statements in other areas of your code as needed.
      - `&test`
        - We're taking a `reference` to the variable test. From the Rust book:
          "Using an ampersand in front of a value takes a reference to it."
      - We've come to a point that I'm going to gloss over a little bit, and
        that's `unwrap_or(RString::new(""))`
        - Since Ruby has a concept of `nil` and methods can pass `nil` as a
          valid parameter to essentially anything we have to account for it in
          Rust. What our `to_snake_case` method actually receives is an `Option`
          which is either a valid `RString` or `Nothing`. Since it could be
          `Nothing` Rust forces us to deal with it now. `unwrap_or` is some
          sugar that Rust provides to make it easy to provide a fallback when dealing with options.
      - The next two lines should be very obvious. We convert the RString to a
        Rust String type and then use Inflectors to_snake_case method.
  - We're going to skip over lines 2 and 3, and act like they don't exist
  - Finally we're at `methods!`. This is a `macro`, similar to metaprogramming
    in Ruby this allows Rusticans to write syntax extensions which allow us to
    concisely define common patterns. Like metaprogramming this should be used
    "as a last resort" to produce well abstracted concise code. --
    paraphrased from https://doc.rust-lang.org/beta/book/macros.html
    - This macro is provided by ruru and will apply any required transformations
      to the `_itself` variable on line 3.
---
